t-rex is mating I think we could look at
probably crocodiles to get an idea of
that they would have to of course touch
their cloaca which is the the single
opening that they do all their business
through both male and female and it's
located at the base of the tail so the
male's tail would have to actually wrap
under the females tail the females tail
it'd have to kind of turn a little bit
to allow the the male's penis to
actually enter the cloaca of the female
and it was it must have been quite a
sight because these are pretty big
animals and hopefully there weren't too
many injuries but I'm sure that rough
sex would would it would have would have
resulted in some broken bones
occasionally he seems to be putting an
awful lot of weight onto her back just
there Deanna's legs have to be quite
splayed apart I mean to get into that
position it it's quite athletic
surprisingly even managed to achieve it
actually and one of the females that we
worked with one called sue there's a
actually a portion of the tail that
looks like it was stepped on by another
Rex there's three fused vertebrae on the
tail and very very easily could have
happened during during a passionate
moment before long the inevitable
happened the dinosaurs was starting to
mate
[Music]
what would happen next was well-known
eggs have been preserved for many
different dinosaurs surprisingly there
never much bigger than a football even
for dinosaurs that ended up 40 meters
long what had to be worked out was how
they would have laid them take the
Diplodocus they were not the most supple
of animals and could not have got very
low to the ground how did they stop
their eggs breaking the series had to
come up with a possible solution in the
studio an egg-laying contraption was
about to be put to work the eggs getting
stuck down the tube doesn't want to come
out it's not ready yet well this this is
an ovipositor on an egg tube I mean we
knew that sauropods are very large and
they lay hard eggs so they had to have
some way of getting them down into a
hole to bury them without them cracking
so this is possibly one solution that is
sort of muscular tube a bit like a
turtle house that allowed the egg to
pass down get close to the ground
drop it in then they could bury it over
the top of it it looks a little bit of
seen but it's only a guess it's a boy
[Music]
in the water something very different
was going on this astonishing fossil of
an ichthyosaur was found in Germany it
clearly shows a baby halfway out of her
mother's birth canal this is proof of
two things it feeis ors gave birth to
live young and the young were born
tail-first the birth was an episode that
was recreated in detail okay standing by
for you just get the town moving a
little bit more freely there so turn
over
the dinosaurs had been brought back to
life and had spawned another generation
the ancient worlds that had been filmed
was soon repopulated with extinct
animals of every description with them
had returned the entire richness of a
world we'd thought we'd lost forever
[Music]
[Applause]
you
[Music]